JUDY WOODRUFF: As the 2007 Tony
Awards approach this Sunday,
we look at one of this season's
biggest Broadway hits and
the impact it's having.
Jeffrey Brown is back with
the story from New York.
JEFFREY BROWN: "Dear
Evan Hansen" is a high
school musical, but one
in which the loneliness
and pain of teen life is front
and center, and the sense
of isolation intensified in
today's social media world.
At the famed Sardi's Restaurant
recently, star Ben Platt
said audiences are clearly
finding a connection.
BEN PLATT, Actor: People that
come to the show feel, right
now, especially with sort
of hyperconnectivity online
and with people feeling sort
of instantaneously judged all
the time, I think people
kind of recede into
these sort of bubbles.
The chance to sort of connect
and realize that nobody's
experience of loneliness is
unique and that everybody at
some time or another feels
sort of on the outside looking
in, or feels that they can't
really fully be present, or
that they aren't sort of one
of the whole, but rather
on their own, is a really
powerful thing right now.
JEFFREY BROWN: The
23-year-old Platt grew up
around movies and theater.
His father, Marc, is a
major producer of hits,
including "Wicked."
Before this production, Ben
was known for roles in the
"Pitch Perfect" films and in
the musical "The
Book of Mormon."
He plays Evan Hansen as
a young man so insecure,
he can barely speak.
It's an acclaimed performance
of teenage awkwardness
and vibrant singing.
BEN PLATT: This role is
certainly the biggest challenge
I have had so far in my life.
And it's a huge blessing in that
way, too, because I feel like
I'm using all of the proverbial
tools that I have in my belt,
which is all you want as an
actor, is to feel like you're
really being able to show
everything you have got.
And, vocally and physically
and emotionally and all of
that, it requires a lot.
JEFFREY BROWN: When a classmate
commits suicide, Evan Hansen
is mistakenly seen as his one
friend.
Evan is suddenly a subject
of interest to his classmates
and the other boy's family.
He gains a girlfriend and even
a kind of instant celebrity when
a speech he gives about suicide
goes viral.
But it's all a misunderstanding,
destined to come crashing
down around him.
Steven Levenson wrote the story.
STEVEN LEVENSON, Author, "Dear
Evan Hansen": It's very much
this singular story of this
person in the world that we
know very well, but struggling
with these things that hopefully
are things that we all
know and experience.
But we never wanted it to feel
like learning or didactic.
We never wanted to teach
the audience a lesson or
to talk about technology.
We just wanted to tell
this story and hopefully
illuminate something
about the world in doing
this.
MICHAEL GREIF, Director: Yes,
and like in all the -- in all
great theater writing, those
themes get expressed
through that story.
And those things become
a part of Evan's story
and a part of his world.
JEFFREY BROWN: Director Michael
Greif previously staged two
Pulitzer Prize-winning musicals,
"Rent" and "Next to
Normal," that took on
complex contemporary
issues, such as drug
addiction and bipolar disorder.
You clearly feel that musicals
can tell difficult stories.
MICHAEL GREIF: Yes, certainly.
I grew up seeing a lot of
different kinds of musicals.
And the musicals I was always
particularly drawn to were --
"Man of La Mancha," I think
was the first
musical I ever saw.
Talk about a musical with
serious purpose and dark themes
that are expressed, you know,
musicals that really do say
something real and authentic
about "The Times" that they
were made in.
JEFFREY BROWN: "Dear Evan
Hansen" has certainly
struck a chord with
audiences, and many have
shared their gratitude
and their own stories via
e-mails and social media.
NARRATOR: "I brought our
15-year-old daughter and
13-year-old son to the show.
Their older sister, our
16-year-old daughter,
died by suicide a
little over a year ago.
We are still devastated.
But it helps us when people
talk about mental illness with
understanding and compassion,
as you did in your show."
NARRATOR: "The 'Dear
Evan Hansen' soundtrack
has saved my life."
NARRATOR: "Last night, I
found out my dear high school
friend had taken his own life
on Thursday afternoon.
I am devastated by this loss,
but grateful for having a
show like 'Dear Evan Hansen'
to turn to.
I just wanted to thank you
for getting me through this
incredibly difficult time.
#Youwillbefound."
JEFFREY BROWN: Ben Platt hears
such stories every night.
BEN PLATT: When I get to met
-- the opportunity to meet fans
after the show or hear from them
online or via letters, they
feel really comfortable
divulging really personal
things and opening
up about their own struggles.
JEFFREY BROWN: Oh,
really, to you?
BEN PLATT: Certainly, with
anxiety and with self-harm and
with inability to connect and
all sorts of things.
And that's an incredibly
beautiful thing, and I want
nothing more than for the show
to encourage that and to be able
to receive things like that.
JEFFREY BROWN: It's no spoiler
alert to say that the show
does end on an upbeat note.
This is about finding
your way through pain.
STEVEN LEVENSON: Just as a
writer, just philosophically,
I want to leave the
audience feeling some
kind of hope and some kind of --
I'm not interested in grim, and
I'm not interested in torture,
watching things that just make
you feel awful, because we have
enough of that in the world.
And Evan, I think, ultimately
in the story, what was so
exciting was finding that the
story really wasn't about
a suicide, but more about a
character saving his own life.
JEFFREY BROWN: As for the actor
playing that character, as
Broadway's hottest young star,
his life will never be the same.
So, is all this pretty
heady stuff, all this?
BEN PLATT: It's
incredibly heady.
It's been my dream since I was
a really little kid to just be
in the Broadway community at
all, and to do musical
theater as a job.
And so now for that to be
true and to be doing it
in a show that's making
this big of a mark,
and in a role that comes
around not ever, is,
like, very hard to fathom.
But it's wonderful
beyond my wildest dreams.
JEFFREY BROWN: Ben Platt, Steven
Levenson, and Michael Greif
all received Tony nominations,
among the nine garnered by
"Dear Evan Hansen," including
one for best musical.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Jeffrey Brown on Broadway.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And it's
gratifying to know that
show is having an effect
around the country.